feat: Add migration guide for new language handling (#1930)
shopware/docs: resources/references/upgrades/core/translation-handling.md

---
nav:

>   title: Migration Guide to internal Translation Handling

Reviewer: Probably "LanguagePack Migration" or "... Transistion" would be best

>   title: Migration Guide to internal Translation Handling

Author: done

  position: 10
---

# Migration Guide: Language Pack Plugin → Integrated Translation Handling

Starting with Shopware **6.7.3**, translations are managed directly in Shopware. From **6.8**, the [Language Pack Plugin](https://store.shopware.com/en/swag338126230916f/shopware-language-pack.html) will no longer be compatible. Follow this guide to migrate safely.

## What Changes

- **From Shopware 6.7.3 onward**

  - Translations can be installed via Shopware itself, the [Language Pack Plugin](https://store.shopware.com/en/swag338126230916f/shopware-language-pack.html) is not required to fetch the newest [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/shopware6) translations.

>   - New CLI command available:

Reviewer: You probably should add:
- Languages now have an active flag.
- Languages installed/managed from other sources do not need to register their locales in the admin anymore.

Author: done

    ```bash
    bin/console translation:install --locales it-IT
    ```
  - The [Language Pack Plugin](https://store.shopware.com/en/swag338126230916f/shopware-language-pack.html) still works but is optional.
  - **Other translation plugins or snippets in themes are not affected and can still be used alongside the integrated handling.**

- **Shopware 6.8 and later**

  - The [Language Pack Plugin](https://store.shopware.com/en/swag338126230916f/shopware-language-pack.html) is **not compatible**.

>   - The integrated [language handling](link-to-language-handling-docs) should be used to fetch the newest [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/shopware6) translations.

Author: hmm.. i will pick also martins pr. then i can fill these links.

  - **Other translation plugins or snippets in themes are not affected and can still be used alongside the integrated handling.**

## Migration Paths

### 1. You are **not using the Language Pack Plugin**

- Nothing changes.
- To install additional languages, use the CLI command:
  ```bash  
  bin/console translation:install --locales <locale-code>
  ```

Example: `bin/console translation:install --locales it-IT,fr-FR` will install Italian and French.

### 2. You are **currently using the Language Pack Plugin**

1. Run the translation command and install every language you are using in your shop

   ```bash
   bin/console translation:install --locales <locale-code>,<locale-code>
   ```

> 2. The command uses the **same source ([Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/shopware6))** as the [Language Pack Plugin](https://store.shopware.com/en/swag338126230916f/shopware-language-pack.html), so translations stay identical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The command uses the **same source ([translate.shopware.com](https://crowdin.com/project/shopware6))** as the [Language Pack Plugin](https://store.shopware.com/en/swag338126230916f/shopware-language-pack.html), but is updated more frequently. So it's essentially identical – or even more up to date!
```

I'd rather use this to spread it a bit more. We do not need to advertise crowdin, but our own translations.
Plus: I guess it's good to emphasis on the fact that our new solution is even better!

Author: done

3. You can safely uninstall and remove the Language Pack Plugin. Your **custom snippets** created in the Snippet Module remain intact, since they are saved in the database.
4. Make sure that all languages you need are **active** in the Administration:
   `Settings → Languages`

## New Installations

> * During a fresh Shopware installation, you can select desired languages directly in the installer. They will then be downloaded and installed automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* During a fresh Shopware installation, you can select desired languages directly in the installer. They will be downloaded and installed automatically.
```

---
nav:
  title: Language Pack Migration
  position: 10
---

> # Migration Guide: Language Pack Plugin → Integrated Translation Handling

Reviewer 2: I'll keep Start Case case-style like the h1 of other articles
